Having launched many data science practices in my career,
I've also developed a list of seven keys to creating strategic roadmaps.
These are as follows.
First, embrace the philosophy of many experiments to gain momentum.
Executing multiple limited scope experiments helps to
identify what works and what doesn't and deliver value more quickly.
Second, start with narrow examples.
These generate stories, allow the art of the
possible that you can leverage to gain
momentum and scale accordingly across the business.
I might favor a relatively narrowly scoped initial project
to prove out data science and get stakeholders behind the project.
Third, select only high impact,
high feasibility use cases,
especially at the beginning of a data science initiative.
Delivering a project successfully is more important than
having huge impact for your initial data science initiatives.
Fourth, consider the milestones relevant to each project.
Publicizing milestones helps maintain momentum and interest among stakeholders.
Fifth, look for overlap between milestones in various projects.
As you build a portfolio of data science projects,
it can be helpful,
especially initially, to choose groups of projects that share similar milestones.
Sixth, start to map these milestones against time based on resources available.
We will talk in the next section about setting expectations.
Matching resources to the timing of milestones is a key step to this.
Finally, seven, another aspect of setting
expectations is to underpromise and overdeliver to drive success for your business.
With your enthusiasm for data science,
it can be tempting to oversell your projects and anticipated benefits.
It's much better to temper that enthusiasm,
publicize relatively modest goals,
and save the excitement for when you far surpass everybody's expectations.